♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We're the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
I call this first trick
"picking summer flowers."
Oh, that's beautiful, Jay.
I think
your Summer Spectacular show
is gonna be the best
flying show you've ever done.
Thanks. Every one
of my flying stunts
is about what makes
summer so great.
I call this one "watching
the summer clouds go by."
[head rattles]
What is that?
It looks like snow.
Jay, it's snowing.
Does it snow in the summer?
No. If it's snowing,
that means summer is over
and so is fall.
If it's snowing,
it must be winter.
[gasps] But Jay's Summer
Spectacular is all about summer!
All my tricks are about summer.
If it's winter,
I can't do my show!
This doesn't make any sense.
I know. What do we do?
Come on.
We better find Toby and Teri.
[head rattles]
Mm-hmm.
Jay, look.
It's not snowing here.
It shouldn't be
snowing anywhere.
[laughs]
Yeah, it's summer.
See? We're picking strawberries.
Hey aren't you getting ready
for your Summer Spectacular?
I was, but now I'm not.
Oh, no. Why not?
Because it's not summer.
How is it not summer?
The sun is out,
the grass is green, and--
Is that snow?
[Rumy gasps]
[Rumy and Bean]
Yahoo! It's snowing!
-Oh. Sorry, Jay.
-Yeah. Sorry.
And my Summer Spectacular
was all about summer things.
It's not going to make much
sense if it's winter.
But it's too soon for winter.
Winter isn't supposed
to be here 'til...
wintertime, and it's summer.
But there it is, snow.
Snow that shouldn't be falling,
but is falling.
We've gotta find out why.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
Jay's been planning his
Summer Spectacular for weeks.
But if it really is snowing,
he can't do a show
about summer.
We gotta figure out
what's happening.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
So let's follow the facts.
We know it's summer, because--
Let's see.
It's a beautiful, warm day.
And there's a butterfly.
They're not out
during the winter.
And we were
just picking strawberries.
But it's snowing,
which is definitely something
that happens in the winter.
What else happens in the winter?
It gets dark really early.
And we go sledding.
And ice skating.
Of course. The pond
freezes over in the winter
so we can go ice skating.
Yes, so if the pond is frozen,
we can go skating today.
[laughs]
I love ice skating!
Let's go get
our skates and hats.
It's cold when you skate.
But what about my show?
Everything I came up with
was about summer.
Maybe your show
can be about ice skating?
But I don't know how to skate.
It's okay. We'll show you.
It could be part of a new show
all about winter.
Ah, I guess I can try.
It'll be great. You'll see.
Let's go get our skates.
[sighs]
We better take a look
at the pond.
Yeah, if it really did
suddenly turn into winter...
We'll have
a frozen pond for sure.
Flowers don't grow
in winter, right?
These flowers don't.
And look at the pond.
[Teri]
It's not frozen.
What? It's not?
Not even a little bit.
But that means we can't skate.
And if we can't skate,
it's not winter.
So if it's not winter,
I can do my Summer Spectacular.
Oh, I'm really confused.
And I'm really hot in my scarf.
Sure you are,
because it's not cold,
which is why the pond
is not frozen.
You're right, and that's a clue.
It has to be cold
for the pond to freeze
and for it to snow,
but it's warm,
a warm, beautiful day
full of singing birds
and colorful flowers.
If we follow the facts,
it sure seems like summer,
so the snow is the one piece
that doesn't fit.
But there it is, snow.
[gasps]
Jay, why don't you
do a snow show?
You could call it
Jay's Snowy Spectacular.
I don't know. I really had a lot of fun
stuff planned for the summer show.
But there's a whole lot
of fun winter stuff, too.
Snow is lots of fun.
There are snowmen.
And snow angels.
And snowballs.
I can see it.
Jay's Snowy Spectacular,
and I'll begin it
with a super snowflake spiral.
Let's go!
-Yo!
-Come on!
It's time you and I
gave this snow a closer look.
Sounds good to me. Come on.
Wow!
Look at all this snow.
There's enough here
for a million forts,
a zillion snowballs,
and a whole city of snowmen.
And I'll create tricks
for every one of them.
Watch. I'll begin
with the "Snowman Cancan."
That's great, Jay.
We'll build a snowman
you can dance with.
The best snowman ever.
I'm a snowman building expert.
You always start
by making a great big ball
of snow for the body.
Sounds good to me.
Oh.
Let me help you.
Me, too.
Just gather it up
with your hand,
and roll the snow
into a ball like this.
[gasps]
Uh, hold on.
This is going to work.
[grunts]
[groans]
[sighs]
It didn't work.
[Bean groans]
This snow doesn't make snowmen.
That's a clue.
It doesn't really do anything
that snow does.
It's not cold,
and when I rub the snowflake,
it should melt.
[Toby]
And there's something in here,
a little brown spot.
Snowflakes don't have
little brown spots.
I don't think
these are snowflakes.
How can it not be snow?
It's white and fluffy
and falling from the sky.
Teri's right.
This snow isn't cold.
And it's supposed
to fall from clouds, but look.
There's not a cloud in the sky.
You're right. This snow
is blowing in on the wind,
and it's all coming
from over there.
Then that's the way we're going.
Come on, everybody!
It's snowing really hard!
We should turn back!
No! Keep going!
Why are you all yelling?
[chuckles]
You're supposed to yell
in snowstorms, aren't you?
I don't think
this is a snowstorm.
[Jay]
Hey, it's summer!
I can't believe it.
You guys made it summer again.
All we did was follow the facts,
and they brought us here.
Just as I suspected,
it's not winter yet.
Each of these snowflakes
is carrying a seed
from these cottonwood trees.
Remember those brown spots
Toby found?
Those are the seeds.
So what's all
the white stuff for?
The cottony bit
makes the seed float
so the wind can carry them
to new places
to make new cottonwood trees.
So this isn't real snow.
It's summer snow.
[laughs]
Exactly.
Cottonwood trees
only do this in summer.
Which means I get to put on
my Summer Spectacular
show after all!
Yippee!
Prepare to be amazed.
Presenting
Jay's Summer Spectacular,
starring Jay!
-[cheering]
-All right, Jay!
Thank you. The first act
of my Summer Spectacular
is called "ode to the fluffy
cottonwood seeds of summer."
[cheering]
All right, Jay!
[chirping]
Say, "Snowflakes"!
-Snowflakes!
[camera clicks]
These sure look like snowflakes.
But it shouldn't have been
snowing on a summer day.
You're right.
It didn't make sense.
Until we followed the facts
straight
to the cottonwood trees.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] "The Case
of the Suspicious Snowflakes"
is officially closed.
[saxophone playing]
Where is everybody?
[Teri]
Here we are.
Millie's Acorn Springs Band
is ready for rehearsal.
One bagpipe ready to, um...
pipe.
[plays bagpipe]
I've got my violin.
[plays violin]
[bongos playing]
Just call me Bongo Bean.
[maracas shaking]
And I'm ready with my maracas.
Perfect. Now there's nothing
keeping us from fame
and fortune except...
Rumy. Where is he?
Here I am.
Where's your instrument?
I don't have one.
That's okay.
You don't need an instrument.
Last time I checked,
pigs are pretty good at oinking.
Why don't you try that?
Ha! Really?
Oh, that's a great idea.
Okay. Let's see how it sounds.
From the top.
And one and two and...
[band playing]
[snorting]
[shrill]
♪ Oink oink oink oink! ♪
That did not sound good.
Uh, you know what?
I-I can just listen.
Th-That'll be fun, too.
No. This band is for everyone.
Toby, Teri, do you think you can
make something for Rumy to play?
Sure we can,
if we can figure out
how instruments make sound.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Our instruments are all made
of things
you can find in the forest.
I wonder, how we can get things like
this leaf and stick to make music?
It's a mystery that
we've gotta figure out
so we can make Rumy
an amazing instrument all his own.
If we don't,
Rumy can't be in the band.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
Great, move it over there.
[Teri]
Beatrice...
how are you?
Busy as always.
We've got to get our dam ready
for the winter.
So, what can I do you for?
Toby and Teri are going
to make me a musical instrument.
If you guys have detailed plans,
we can build you
whatever you want.
Do you guys ever make music?
That's all we do
when we're not building things.
Check it out.
Hey, guys, let's play 'em
something snappy!
[playing percussion]
I love this sound.
Oh ho! This is great!
Yeah! That's why
I love playing drums!
What?
[sighs]
We've already got
a drum in the band.
I need to find something else.
Oh, I found this.
[laughs]
It's a hollow stick.
If you put pebbles in it,
you can make it rattle.
[laughs]
[shaking]
Ah! That's pretty neat.
But that's the sound
my maracas make.
[maracas shaking]
See?
Oh, you're right.
So is there
something else I can play?
The beavers's tails
were like Bean's drum...
and the hollow stick sounded
just like Jay's maracas.
We have to find Rumy
a brand-new way to make music.
[moose bellows]
How about a sound like that?
Yeah. That's awesome!
Where's that coming from?
Hi, everybody.
What's going on?
Toby and Teri are going
to make me a musical instrument.
Maybe one that does
what you just did.
Uhh!
How did you make that sound?
It was the loudest thing
I've ever heard.
I don't think I could do that
if I tried. Ohhh!
The trick is to fill your lungs
like a balloon.
[inhales]
Then let it out
through your nose.
[bellows]
[playing bagpipe]
What's wrong?
The Acorn Springs Band
already has an instrument
that makes moose sounds,
your bagpipes.
You're right.
That's okay.
We'll just try something else.
Can you think of anyone around
here who also makes music?
You should talk to the crickets.
I love the sounds they make.
Crickets make beautiful music.
I always hear crickets
over here in the tall grass.
[cricket chirping]
Hey! Here's one.
Hello, little cricket.
She makes music
by rubbing her legs together.
Can you do that again?
[chirping]
[Millie]
The cricket's legs vibrate.
That's what makes the music.
[playing violin]
My violin works the same way.
I pull the bow
across the strings,
and they make music.
So even if I could
do that with my legs,
we've already got
that sound in the band.
Don't worry, Rumy.
We won't give up.
And using the clues we've got
so far, I've got an idea.
I've got a sound
that isn't like anything
in The Acorn Springs Band.
[wind blowing]
I come here sometimes to think,
and I always listen to the wind.
That's a great sound.
[gasps]
I think I could do that.
Whoooo!
[breathless]
Like this?
[coughing]
I give up.
[air whistling]
Wait! Rumy, did you hear that?
You just made music.
[gasps]
How did I do that?
Let's follow the facts.
The wind is blowing...
and the tree is hollow.
And every time Rumy sits down,
he covers one of the holes
in the log.
[air whistling]
[whistling changes pitch]
[laughs]
This is fun.
Oh! You guys wanna try?
-Sure!
[playing melody]
[laughs]
That sounds great!
[cheering]
What is it, Rumy?
This is great,
but it's too big to move,
so I don't have
an instrument again.
Toby, now that we know
how the log makes music,
can you make Rumy something
just like it, but smaller?
Sure.
Can you make some holes in this?
A big one here and a bunch
of little ones along here.
[laughs]
You got it.
Thanks.
Now just blow across here,
like you were the wind.
Okay.
[plays note]
Hey!
-It's working!
-[cheering]
And it's a sound all your own.
[plays melody]
Now we've really got a band.
-[cheering]
-Yay! Yay!
[audience murmuring]
[band playing]
[flute solo]
-[cheering]
-[Beatrice] Ah, bravo! Bravo!
-[moose bellows]
-[laughing]
[Millie]
Thank you.
We're so glad you came to see
the Acorn Springs Band.
Say, "Music!"
-Music!
[camera clicks]
We helped our friend be a part
of the Acorn Springs Band.
And we learned a new way
to make a musical instrument.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] "The Case
of the Missing Instrument"
is officially closed.